# Deep-learning-based-IDS
Intrusion detection model using Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) neural network by first selecting features based on Random Forest algorithm along with sequential forward feature selection
Dataset used is STIN which is satellite network data available publically. The network packet data was collected by performing tcpdump on known network packets. Some of these packets were labelled according to the known categories of malicious network attacks. The STIN contains 32 features, has no normal data packets. The features largely describe various parameters related to network packets such as flow duration, forward and backward packets and their lengths etc. The STIN also contains 2 types of satellite attacks in addition 9 types of terrestrial network attacks present in both which include labels for nine different types of attacks including DDoS, Backdoor, WebAttack, Botnet, and a limited number of others which are later removed as part of minority removal during dataset pre-processing.  There has not been any feature extraction, but a few important features were selected as part of the SFS feature selection process to improve accuracy of the models which were trained to use them. 
Data preprocessing included minority removal, label encoding, minmax normalization and RF-SFS (feature selection) where 10 top accuracy features are selected to be fed into the GRU model.
This project is based on the below reference paper : 
Azar, A. T., Shehab, E., Mattar, A. M., Hameed, I. A., & Elsaid, S. A. (2023). Deep Learning Based Hybrid Intrusion Detection Systems to Protect Satellite Networks. Journal of Network and Systems Management, 31(4), 82.
